- [Instructor] Microservice Architectures present unique
security challenges that require us to rethink
how we approach application security.
Security strategies used in monolith are well established
when compared to a Microservice Architecture.
In a monolith, the number of exposed ports is kept
to a minimum to reduce the applications attack surface.
Requests entering the system are intercepted
by a security filter that ensures users are authenticated
and permitted to access the system.
Upon authentication, a security context is established
that contains the authenticated users identity,
roles and permissions.
Since the entire system executes within a single process,
this security context is used throughout the monolith
to authorize granular access to data and capabilities.
Essentially, the entire monolith shares
the same trust domain.
Microservice Architectures are fundamentally different,
so we need to rewrite the playbook.
By design, these distributed systems are made up
of independent components that must expose a port
in order to be cold.
This broadens the system's attack surface.
The attack surface is also dynamic.
It changes as we scale a service
or when a new service is introduced.
Access control poses another challenge
as outside network traffic enters the system
also known as North/South Traffic.
We must decide where to perform authentication
and subsequently authorization.
Building authentication into each service
isn't a good option, because requests
from the same principle
to another service would require reauthentication.
Security controls may also be necessary
for traffic between services
also known as East/West Traffic,
in order to maintain confidentiality
and integrity of data pass between services.
This task becomes more complicated when the traffic
between services spans multiple trust domains.
Once the user's identity is established,
sharing that information across services while maintaining
it's integrity requires specialized strategies.
Microservice security isn't all doom and gloom.
There are a few bright spots.
Because services are independent of one another,
there can be advantages when it comes to availability.
For example, a denial of service attack could crash
a non-essential service.
However, since the attack only hit one service,
it's possible for the rest of the system
to remain available.
If a service were exploited, the impact might be confined
to a smaller portion of the system
because it is harder for an attacker to move laterally.
To secure a Microservice Architecture,
it's important to take the time upfront
to understand these unique aspects
of securing a distributed system.
That way the appropriate security strategies can be applied.